The abundance of data is everywhere.
Either it's from our ERP systems, HR systems, or CRM systems, or even IoT.
We started to realize that we indeed have a treasure,
and we need to utilize that treasure and understand what's going on.
Welcome to data analysis.
If we take an academic definition from Wikipedia,
we will find that data analysis is the process of inspecting, cleansing,
transforming, and modeling data with the goal of discovering useful information,
informing conclusion, and supporting decision making.
So, the data analysis process involves many steps on the data,
such as cleansing and transformation,
in order to find out what hidden information the data has and how this
information can help us in our decision‑making process.
Let's see. Let's take a simple example to understand how data
analysis can help us in our daily decision making.
Let's assume that you are the head of a huge hospital and your
supply chain faces a really annoying challenge,
which is that a large amount of the medication you
purchase gets expired before being used,
which results in a financial loss for the hospital and, even worse,
some patients not getting medication at the right time due to a lack of stock.
You really feel irritated because of this problem.
That should be easy to fix. It's just about getting
our supply at the right time.
Of course, there should be something we can do.
One day, in a coffee machine chat with a bright data scientist
that works at the IT department, he mentions something about
data analytics and data trends.
You became excited and shared the problem with him
and see if he can find a solution.
He says,
sure, can you just give me the access rights to the prescription systems
that our doctors use and a couple of days of work?
You say, surely. You will get it.
I would shoot an email right now from my mobile to the head
of IT to grant you the required access.
Now the bright data scientist works on the prescription system data
and does some data analysis work and, ta‑da, comes back with a
finding. The data scientist presents, hey,
I simply made an analysis on our patients' prescription history over the last
10 years, and you know what, I found an interesting pattern.
What is it? During the winter, we tend to request lots of saline,
while in the summer we use lots of syringes.
However, in the autumn, we need lots of pills, and in the spring,
many, many bandages,
usually since kids are playing everywhere around and
they get injured quite often. You, the head of the hospital,
say with a big smile, what an interesting finding. I will
share that with our supply chain unit and make sure that we
align our orders accordingly.
Thanks very much.
This simple story gives you a small hint on what useful
insights we can extract from our daily operational data if we
apply proper data analysis on it.
While the previous application makes use of data analysis alone on it's own in
the machine learning context, data analysis is needed for a different purpose,
to please our machine learning algorithm. That is,
machine learning algorithms have specific expectations of the data; therefore,
we need to study our data and align it, if needed, to please our machine learning algorithms.